[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: Write a function twice
that takes a binary function and
returns a unary function that passes its
argument to the binary function twice.
So by twice I mean this.
We've got the add function
we're going to add 11 twice.
Okay, that'll produce 22.
So we're going to automate that.
We're gonna make a twice function.
We can pass add to that and
it will create a double function
which does the same thing.
We could also pass the multiply
function to twice.
It will produce a square function
which will square things.
Now, I intentionally
misspelled the word double.
Because in some implementations,
double is reserved word.
And if you spell it correctly, you'll
get a syntax error which is inexcusable.
Since double isn't even
used in this language.
But so, I misspelled it.
I recommend that you misspell it too for
the same reason.
So here is twice.
Twice takes a binary function.
Returns a function that takes an argument.
Returns result of calling the binary
function with that arguments twice.
So got twice?
Very good, if you didn't get it,
write it down.
If you're gonna need it for another one.
Any questions before we
go on to the next one?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe a dumb question.
I was trying to figure out if there was
a way to define this using [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas: There probably is but it's
probably just as well that you didn't.
>> Speaker 2: All right.
So if we did,
would we wanna change
to that implementation?
>> Douglas: It's up to you.
The most important thing
today is that it works.
>> Douglas: Okay, ready to move on?
Okay, here's the next one.
Write reverse, a function that reverses
the arguments of a binary function.
So we're gonna to pass to reverse the sub
function that we wrote this morning.
And it returns the bus function
which is subtract backwards.
So if we pass 3 and
2 to bus, we'll get -1.
Okay, so here is reverse.
reverse takes a binary function and
returns a function that takes
the first and second argument, returns
result to calling the binary function
with the second and first argument.
So who got reverse?
Very good.
So this is how will write it next year.
We'll be able to reverse
any number of arguments.
So we're trying to get
into practical stuff now.
So you might imagine,
you've got two APIs and
you need to make them work together but
they were not designed to work together.
So they're calling
sequences are incompatible.
And you could rewrite one of them
to be more like the other but
that's too much work or you could write a
wrapper function around every entry point
of one but that's too much work too.
With this approach,
we could let functions do that work.
So we can have functions write wrappers,
which will allow
us to use the matter operability or
interchangeably, okay?
So ready for the next one?
Write a function composeu that
takes two unary functions and
returns a unary function
that calls them both.
So we're gonna take the double in
the square function that we wrote earlier.
And we're gonna pass
them both to composeu.
And then, we'll pass the function that
returns 5 and it will return 100.
And it'll do that by taking the five and
doubling it and
then taking that and squaring it.
So here is composeu.
Composeu takes functions f and g.
It returns a function that
takes an argument and
returns the result of calling g(f(a)).
So who got compose you?
Very good.
The tricky thing about this one was that
nested function invocations are written
inside out.
Which lexically looks backwards and
say just need to get the g before
the f even though it's called later.
So this introduces a way of programming
which is kind of like adding Unix pipes
except at the function level.
That we can take existing functions and
kinda string them together.
And pass values through them and
it'll go through this chain of functions
until something comes out the other end.
So next year when we write this function,
we'll allow to take not two functions but
any number of functions and you can
just program a whole series of things.
Until then, you could call
composeu you several times each
time adding a new function to the list.
Sort of like currying, I guess.
Okay, any questions about that?
Ready for another one?
>> Douglas: Anybody?
Yeah, all right.
Good, good, all right.
>> Douglas: So Write a function composeb
that takes two binary functions and
returns a function that calls them both.
So we're going to pass add and
mul to composeb and
they will return the function.
And if we pass it, 2, 3, and
7, it'll be turned in 35.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
>> Douglas: So here is composeb,
composeb takes two functions f and g.
Returns a function that takes a, b, and c.
And returns result of calling g(f(a and
b) and c).
So who got composeb?
Really good, you guys are doing great.
>> Douglas: Feeling good?
Yeah?
Okay, wanna do another one?
I've got another one.
So let's go.
Write a limit function that
allows a binary function to be
called a limited number of times.
So, we're going to pass
the add function to limit, and
say you can call it,
you can use it one time.
And that will produce
a limited add function.
We could then give that to a third party,
and the third party can call it once, and
it works just right.
But if they called a second time,
all it does is return undefined.
Doesn't do anything else.
Okay, you could think of, you could
pass a wish function to limit and
say you only get three wishes.
The wish function can make
any number of wishes but
the function that we hand
you will have a limit on.
Does the function you pass
have to be a binary function?
>> Douglas: Let's say, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas: In the future,
we want to work with anything but for
today we'll just say binary function.
So here's limit.
limit takes a binary function and a count.
And it returns a function
that takes two arguments.
If the count is greater than or
equal to one, it documents the count and
returns the result of calling the binary
function with the two arguments.
Otherwise, it will return undefined.
So from this point on,
the functions are starting to get
a little bit more complicated.
So it's unlikely that you
did the same thing I did.
So from this point on, I'm going to
ask who got something that works?
Okay, very good.
Anyone do something interesting?
A different approach?
>> Speaker 3: Use a variable instead of
I had two variables instead of just one.
>> Douglas: Okay, and
where did you put them?
>> Speaker 3: Before return function,
I said max.
No, max was, I said i equal to zero.
And the count I use max.
And then each time I run function,
it just incremented i one.
>> Douglas: Great, very good.
So, anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: Well- Yeah, I'm a little
confused like how to count or.
>> Speaker 3: How is this being stored,
how the number of time has been?
>> Douglas: Well,
we're using a closure, right?
So, the other function has access to
the variables of parameters of the other
function.
So it seems the count that is
changing that [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 3: Do you need
to return undefined there?
>> Douglas: Yeah, so
let’s that a really good question.
And that's why underlined the statement
because I want to talk about it.
So, there are two schools of
thought on that statement.
One is, this is completely unnecessary.
Because in JavaScript, if a function falls
off the bottom it returns undefined.
So this is just a waste of space.
There is no reason to say this.
The other school of thought is
that part of the contract for
this function is that it returns undefined
when the limit is reached and so.
By explicitly returning and defined,
we're providing self documenting code.
>> Douglas: I think both
points of view are valid,
I've not been able to
decide which one is better.
See, you'll see me flip flopping on this.
The thing that is clearly
bad would be saying,
just return semi colon cuz that
doesn't accomplish either thing.
It's a waste of space and it isn't
explicit about what's getting returned.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: And
you answered my question right there.
>> Douglas: Okay, anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: I had
something maybe less clever.
I had a local variable called,
which I initialized to zero,
which was the number of calls made.
>> Douglas: Okay, and
the local variable was stored above-
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, it's like above the,
before the return.
>> Douglas: Brilliant, okay, very good.